# Grants Stack Indexer v2

Grants Stack Indexer v2 is a tool designed to index blockchain events generated by Allo contracts, making the data accessible over HTTP in JSON format. The data is organized in a structure that enables efficient querying and easy access to key components of the protocol.

## 📖 Overview

This repository is a monorepo that contains 8 packages and 3 applications:

### Applications

-   **@grants-stack-indexer/indexer**: An Envio indexer service that collects relevant events from Allo contracts. It is designed to run on the Envio hosted platform and includes a Dockerfile for deployment.

-   **@grants-stack-indexer/processing**: This service runs the core processing pipeline, coordinating components from various packages to process blockchain events. It manages an Orchestrator per chain.

-   **@grants-stack-indexer/scripts**: Contains scripts for managing the database schema and migrations. It includes scripts for running migrations and resetting the database schema.

### Packages/libs

-   **@grants-stack-indexer/chain-providers**: Provides wrappers of the Viem library to interact with EVM-based blockchains. It includes utilities for reading contracts and making batch requests.

-   **@grants-stack-indexer/data-flow**: Manages the flow of data between different components of the indexer. It includes core components for the processing pipeline.

-   **@grants-stack-indexer/indexer-client**: A client library for interacting with blockchain event indexing services. It provides methods to fetch events by block number and log index.

-   **@grants-stack-indexer/metadata**: Handles metadata related to the indexed events. It provides a metadata provider to retrieve metadata from IPFS.

-   **@grants-stack-indexer/pricing**: Manages pricing data and calculations. It includes providers to get the price of a token at a specific timestamp using chainId and token address.

-   **@grants-stack-indexer/processors**: Contains various data processors used in the indexing pipeline. It includes processors for handling Allo, Strategy, and Registry events.

-   **@grants-stack-indexer/repository**: Manages the storage and retrieval of indexed data. It implements the Repository pattern to abstract database operations.

-   **@grants-stack-indexer/shared**: Provides shared utilities, types, constants, and logger. It is designed to be used across the packages of the monorepo to ensure consistency and reusability.

## 🚀 Local Deployment (Development)

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed on your machine:

-   [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started)
-   [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

### Setup

1. Install dependencies and build depedencies:

```
pnpm i && pnpm build
```

1. Copy the Example Environment File and edit the `.env` file

```
cp .env.example .env
```

2. Build and start the services in detached mode:

```
docker-compose up -d --build
```

3. Copy the Example Environment File on `scripts/bootstrap` and edit the `.env` file

```
cp scripts/bootstrap/.env.example scripts/bootstrap/.env
```

4. Copy the Example Environment File on `scripts/migrations` and edit the `.env` file

```
cp scripts/migrations/.env.example scripts/migrations/.env
```

5. Copy the Example Environment File on `scripts/hasura-config` and edit the `.env` file

```
cp scripts/hasura-config/.env.example scripts/hasura-config/.env
```

6. Apply cache migrations:

```
pnpm db:cache:migrate
```

7. Bootstrap DB with IPFS metadata and Pricing(optional):

```
pnpm bootstrap:metadata
pnpm bootstrap:pricing
```

8. Apply migrations:

```
pnpm db:migrate
```

9. For automatic hasura API configuration run:

```
pnpm api:configure
```

Once the setup is completed you can access Hasura by navigating to:

```
http://localhost:8082/
```

Use the default password: `my-admin-secret`.

## To add a new chain

1. On `indexer` package add the chain to `config.yaml` (refer to : [[How to add a new chain](apps/indexer/README.md)] )
2. On `shared` package modify `tokens.ts` and add the tokens you will search price for (Refer to : [[How to add a new token](apps/shared/README.md)] )
3. Wait until the new chain is fully indexed
4. Run bootstrap pricing and metadata scripts (refer to: [[How to run bootstrap for specific chain](scripts/bootstrap/README.md)] )

## Upgrade Notes

### 1. Hasura Version Mismatch in `envio`

When upgrading `envio`, the Hasura version used in `envio` may change. This can lead to version mismatches between different `docker-compose.yml` files in the project.

### 2. Local Development Setup

-   `envio` uses a `docker-compose.yml` located at `apps/indexer/generated/` for local development.
-   The root-level `docker-compose.yml` may have a different Hasura version, leading to potential inconsistencies.
-   Example of a version mismatch found:
    -   **Root `docker-compose.yml`**: `hasura/graphql-engine:v2.23.0`
    -   **Generated `docker-compose.yml` (envio)**: `hasura/graphql-engine:v2.43.0`

### 3. Recommended Fix

To avoid version mismatches:

-   Alternatively, update the Hasura version in the root `docker-compose.yml` to match the `generated` one whenever `envio` is upgraded.

## Contributing

Wonderland is a team of top Web3 researchers, developers, and operators who believe that the future needs to be open-source, permissionless, and decentralized.

[DeFi sucks](https://defi.sucks), but Wonderland is here to make it better.

## 📝 Conventional Commits

We follow the Conventional Commits [specification](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#specification).

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [`LICENSE`](./LICENSE) file for more details.
